{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red218\green119\blue254;\red198\green50\blue253;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16040\viewh11480\viewkind0
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Joseph was unable to sleep that night.\
{\listtext	2.	}(22 July 1898, 368) On \cb2 July 25\cb1 , Joseph received an urgent telegram from \cb2 Alexander\cb1  in \cb2 Paris \cb1 dated \cb2 July 22,\cb1  informing him that he was in \cb2 Paris\cb1  for an important purpose, and that he would sent a letter soon explaining why. \
{\listtext	3.	}Joseph had \cb2 Rezooki\cb1  \cb2 Korkis \cb1 wire \cb2 Alexander\cb1  the money, believing it to be for the purchase of items in \cb2 Europe\cb1  that could be resold at a better price in \cb2 Baghdad.\cb1 \
{\listtext	4.	}Instead, they inflamed the \cb2 Atta-allah\cb1  \cb2 Pasha\cb1  and \cb2 Sultan Abdulhamid\cb1  II's fears that \cb2 Recep\cb1  \cb2 Pasha's\cb1  popularity might one day lead to rebellion. Instead, the \cb2 Mushir\cb1  of \cb3 Yemen\cb1  was called in to take \cb2 Recep Pasha\cb1 's place.\
{\listtext	5.	}On the same day, \cb2 Joseph\cb1  recorded that the \cb2 Mushir\cb1  of the \cb2 Ottoman\cb1  \cb2 6th Army,\cb1  \cb2 Recep\cb1  \cb2 Pasha\cb1 , had been transferred to \cb2 Tripoli\cb1  in \cb2 North Africa\cb1  by order from \cb2 Istanbul\cb1 .\
{\listtext	6.	}\cb2 Mr. B\'f6hm\cb1 , the \cb2 Svoboda \cb1 family friend in \cb2 Vienna\cb1 , could not obtain an \cb2 Austrian\cb1  passport for \cb2 Alexander\cb1 .\
{\listtext	7.	}However, the damage to the \cb2 Blosse Lynch \cb1 was minimal.\
{\listtext	8.	}Later that day, Joseph received a telegram from \cb2 Alexander\cb1  dated the previous night informing him that he had arrived safely in \cb2 Vienna\cb1 .\
{\listtext	9.	}Despite the protestations of \cb2 European\cb1  diplomats, \cb2 Anis\cb1  \cb2 Pasha\cb1  arrived in \cb2 Basra \cb1 aboard the \cb2 Ottoman\cb1  steamer \cb2 Ressafah\cb1 .\
{\listtext	10.	}As the Mesopotamian winter transitioned into spring, and the cold gave way to heat, humidity, and insects, life continued apace for Joseph.\
{\listtext	11.	}The following day the ship's crew rectified this oversight by running up a makeshift \cb2 Turkish\cb1  flag in the rigging.\
{\listtext	12.	}On \cb2 February 19\cb1 , Joseph received two letters from \cb2 Alexande\cb1 r from a month earlier, explaining that he had been quite unwell, but that he had given up the thought of going to \cb2 Cairo \cb1 and would instead go to \cb2 Vienna\cb1  come spring.\
{\listtext	13.	}On \cb2 January 6\cb1 , the \cb2 Father\cb1  \cb2 Superior \cb1 of the \cb2 Latin\cb1  \cb2 Church\cb1 , \cb2 Marie Joseph\cb1 , was feted for his\cb2  \cb1 40th anniversary at the Church in \cb2 Baghdad\cb1 . \
{\listtext	14.	}Though recording wonder at the rarity and beauty of the event, Joseph complains of the cold for several days.\
{\listtext	15.	}Later, the crew celebrated \cb2 Christmas\cb1  aboard the\cb2  Blosse Lynch\cb1  with a caked baked by \cb2 Captain\cb1  \cb2 Cowley's \cb1 butler \cb2 Francis\cb1 .\
{\listtext	16.	}Aside from unusually rainy and gloomy weather, the late autumn and early winter of 1897 was a relatively uneventful time.\
{\listtext	17.	}After visiting with some family on \cb2 November 17th\cb1 , tending to some home business, and receiving another letter from his son, Joseph embarked for \cb2 Basra\cb1  again on the 19th.\
{\listtext	18.	}Evidently, \cb2 Eliza\cb1  had returned to \cb2 Iraq \cb1 separately from Joseph, she had recently arrived at \cb2 Basra\cb1  in the \cb2 SS Arabistan\cb1 , one of several \cb2 British\cb1  steamers which made a regular run from \cb2 Europe\cb1 , through the \cb2 Red Sea\cb1  and \cb2 Persian Gulf\cb1  before traveling on to \cb2 India\cb1 .\
{\listtext	19.	}Typically, Joseph was clerk aboard the \cb2 H. Blosse Lynch\cb1 , though on occasion his services were required aboard her newer sister ship, the \cb2 Mejidieh\cb1 . \
{\listtext	20.	}In the second, \cb2 Eliza\cb1  exhorted \cb2 Alexander\cb1  to telegraph the \cb2 Austrian\cb1  consul in \cb2 Baghdad\cb1  to inform the \cb2 Ambassador\cb1  in \cb2 Paris\cb1  to put a stop to the marriage, this was followed by one from two hours later, in which Eliza stated that she had corresponded with \cb2 Monseigneur Altmayer\cb1 , the \cb2 Archbishop\cb1  of Baghdad, who advised that involving the Austrian ambassador could be a risky proposition.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
DIARY:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Weather getting very warm, unable to sleep in the room & bear warm clothing;   
\b 0/0 not at all
\b0 \
{\listtext	2.	}I found a telegram just arrived from Alexander from Paris sent on the 22 Instt; which made [me] startle & astonished at his sudden departure from \cf4 Vienna\cf0  for Paris.  Svoboda Baghdad Suis Paris raison Majeur lettre suit~ [pg: 370] We are very anxious to know the cause of his return to Paris & cannot make it out, unless it be the cause of the Military Service that the authorities have heard of his being there through somebody, I suspect the sons of Isak Lurion either Faust or Edward, they saw that he was in the office of Olloi Schweizer the General export merchant & did this out of spite,  
\b 2/4 somewhat
\b0 \
{\listtext	3.	}Jeboory proposed to wire to his friend Monsr Sevelinge & also a friend of Ibrahim Gejon to enquire from him & reply, so we made out these following telegrams;  
\b 0/5 not at all
\b0 \
{\listtext	4.	}The present Waly here Atta- Allah Pasha who is a very Old Man, Very fanatic & lazy, & does no good to the Welfare of the people and the Country, hated by every body, but a has a great influence & being a relative of the Sheikh ul Islam [pg: 339] and hates the Mushir in his internal feelings, being jealous of him because every body likes the latter, has been undermining him and, the Sultan hates every person in his service who has such influence & liberality with the nation;& frightened by false rumour being represented to him, that if the Mushire is allowed to be left in Baghdad where his popularity is gaining ground, he might eventually gain his independence by having all the Army Corps siding with him as well as the population, 
\b 3/7 somewhat
\b0 \
{\listtext	5.	}I hear that the Mushire Rejeb Pasha is to be shifted from here to Tripoli in Algeria by an Order from Constantple it is to the regret of every body here Christians, Mahomedans & Jews because he is one of the best man in the Turkish service,  
\b 4/9 somewhat
\b0 \
{\listtext	6.	}I red them all; he has sent me his Turkish Passport (Murur Teskereh) asking me to get him a new one for this year to come on with it, because he says that B\'f6hm told him he cannot get him an Austrian Passport as the Authority will then know that he is in Vienna, and in Septr there will take place the Conscription for the Soldiers, & he will be asked to serve his time in the military so he must leave Vienna 
\b    3/5 relevant
\b0 \
{\listtext	7.	}At 9,,45 the ship struck the shaol bank below Abdulla in Ali & broke 3 arms & floats & we anchored to repair the damage, At 11.30 proceeded, 
\b 0/2 not at all
\b0 \
{\listtext	8.	}At 3 P.M. I received a telegram from Alexander from Vienna dated yesterday he says "Svoboda Baghdad Arrived 17 Safely."  
\b 2/2 relevant
\b0 \
{\listtext	9.	}the french Ambassador Mons Cambon, the latter went immediately to the Sultan & complained very strongly & demanded the immediate dismissal of Anis Pasha & to stop the massacre, which he did, & there was no further bloodshed; Now he has been appointed to Basreh, but the English & french Governments are opposed to it; The English Ambassador Sir Philip Currie protested strongly to the Sultan regarding his being appointed Wali at Basreh~  
\b 3/6 somewhat
\b0 \
{\listtext	10.	}The weather is getting very mild here it is spring already  
\b 0/0 not at all
\b0 \
{\listtext	11.	}We have made a Turkish flag today on board and hoisted it for the Wali Arif Pasha~  
\b 1/1 relevant
\b0 \
{\listtext	12.	}I found two letters here from Alexander of the last two mails one of the 21 & the second of the 28 Jany, in the latter one he says that he had been unwell, he had felt himself very billious & had taken 3 pills from a Doctor which worked him about 10 times but the next day, he vomited about 8 or 9 times all bile but he [pg: 142] felt then relieved & got well; it appears he has given up the idea of going to Cairo; & will go to Vienna as soon as the cold weather is over~ \\ 
\b 3/4 relevant
\b0 \
{\listtext	13.	}I went to the Latin Church; I called to see and congratulate the Superior P\'e8re Marie Joseph whose Celebration of his 40th Anniversary Year in Baghdad took place on 6th Instt with great ceremony  
\b 6/8 relevant
\b0 \
{\listtext	14.	}At 9 am I went to church & then called on Chekury Andrea, Yacoob Oossy, Eassayis, Kass Phillippus etc; many visitors came to visit Eliza my wife~ I called on Sister Eliza, Henry called on us, It is very cold throughout the day;~ This is very unusual cold which came on so soon & sudden; we are not prepared for it yet, 
\b 0/0 not at all
\b0 \
{\listtext	15.	}As today being Christmas Francis Capt Cowley\'92s Butler made a Cake for me, as he does every year, for my son Alexander, but now he is not here to join with us.  
\b 4/6 relevant
\b0 \
{\listtext	16.	}weather is so unusually cold & sharp N.W. wind, we have not prepared any rooms yet, & are sitting in the divan & veranda in this cold wind, 
\b 0/0 not at all
\b0 \
{\listtext	17.	}19 Frid Light N.W. & fine; at 5 \'bd AM I came on board;  
\b 0/2 not at all
\b0 \
{\listtext	18.	}ing up; We went on board of her with Mr. Bottomley, Mr. Braine, Reynolds & George Cowley & his young brother, to see Capt Cowley who is coming up in her, on his return from England in the Arabistan, he looks well the same as before; he gave me a letter from my wife Eliza from Basreh; the Arabistan came out in 25 days from Marseilles a a very good passage~ [pg: 5]   
\b 3/9 somewhat
\b0 \
{\listtext	19.	}we have in all 75 1/2 passengers (2 in 1st Class Jews, & 2 Mahomedan women in 2nd Class) Besides we have 21 persons free, Tom Tartt in 1st Class, & 18 men for the Dock to work in the Mejidieh & 2 Mossully women,  
\b 1/3 not at all
\b0 \
{\listtext	20.	}The third is also from my wife dated today, two hours later.  \
Svoboda Basreh Altmayer telegraphed Paris needfull; wiring Ambassador risky. Eliza, \
This is a fine thing Alexander is doing if what Ibrahim says is true; I am at a loss to find out the reality of this news; but if it is true Alexander must have been doing a great fault and foolishness; unless Ibrahim has been working at it all the time before he went to Vienna \'96 I went with Rezooki called on Jeboory conferred with him [pg: 382] We made out telegrams but left them to consider, he came to Rufail to dine there, I went also, where I saw Tookyeh & her husband Rezooki we talked over the matter, I am mad from the sorrow & grief on Alexanders doings, had no sleep the whole night thinking about the matter;   
\b 3/8 somewhat \
\
\
\ls2\ilvl0
\b0 \
}